"Detached head" and "garbage collection" are two separate 
concepts in Git.

Detached Head:
    A "detached head" state in Git refers to a situation where 
    you are no longer on a branch but directly on a specific 
    commit. This can happen when you checkout a commit directly 
    using its SHA-1 hash or by checking out a tag or a remote 
    branch without creating a local branch for it. In this 
    state, any new commits you create will not be part of any 
    branch, and if you switch to another branch, you might lose 
    track of your changes.
    To illustrate, consider the following steps that lead to a 
    detached head state:
        # Check out a specific commit by its SHA-1 hash
        git checkout <SHA-1 hash>

        # Now, you are in a detached head state. Any new commits 
        won't be part of any branch.

    To get back to a branch from a detached head state, you can 
    create a new branch at the current commit or switch back to 
    an existing branch:
        # Create a new branch at the current commit
        git checkout -b new-branch-name

        # Or, switch back to an existing branch
        git checkout existing-branch-name


Garbage Collection (Git's Housekeeping):
    Git uses a mechanism called "garbage collection" to manage 
    its internal data structures and ensure efficient storage 
    of objects (commits, trees, blobs) and optimize repository 
    performance. Git's data storage is organized in a way that 
    preserves the history of commits and objects, which can 
    lead to redundant or unreferenced objects over time. 

    Git's garbage collection can be initiated manually using the 
    following command:
        git gc

    However, in most cases, there's no need to run it manually, 
    as Git handles the garbage collection automatically. For 
    large repositories or repositories with a long history, 
    garbage collection can be beneficial in terms of reducing 
    storage space and improving performance.


Garbage Collection basic definition
    Garbage collection is an automatic process that runs 
    periodically in the background, and it's also triggered 
    when specific Git commands are executed. It aims to clean 
    up unnecessary objects that are no longer referenced by 
    any branch, tag, or reference, making the repository size 
    smaller and more efficient.


SUMMARY
    To summarize, a "detached head" state in Git occurs when 
    you directly checkout a commit instead of a branch, while 
    "garbage collection" is a housekeeping process Git 
    performs automatically to optimize its storage and 
    performance by cleaning up unnecessary objects.
